# userhand
A suite of Linux userland utilities written in OCaml.

## Introduction
I want to write a suite of userland software for my Linux system. This is purely
a learning project, and I don't expect to get any actual users for these tools.
But I do like the idea of writing my own "daily-driver" software.

## Components
### Phase 1
- Volume Control (possibly expand to "Audio Settings Panel")
- Backlight Control (possibly expand to "Hardware Settings Panel")
- Network Manager GUI

### Phase 2
- Clipboard Manager
- Screenshot Tool

### Phase 3
- Application Launcher
- Notification Daemon
- Status Bar

### Phase 4
- Compositor
- Terminal Emulator

### Ancillary Components
- Website
  - Page for each component
  - Devlog
  - API Docs (generated by ODoc)
- Development Tooling
  - CI/CD scripts

## What's Not In Scope
The base Linux system itself, the browser, text editor, "application" software.

## Development Pipeline
I'll write the software on my local machine, a Lenovo ThinkPad T480. The main
testing environment will initially be a Linux VM running on an M4 MacBook Pro.
Initially I'll build and run the programs on the VM, and eventually I'd like to
package them for xbps (local package repo on the VM.)

Once a component reaches a level of stability I'm happy with, I'll start using
it on the ThinkPad.

## Technical Context
I'm currently running a very minimal Void Linux system as my daily driver for
programming. The Mac is my "home" computer, and provides a stable, isolated
platform for running the VM. There's no rationale to these hardware choices
other than it's what I have access to.


